content/projects/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Projects"
---

{{< alert "secondary" >}}Networking{{< /alert >}}

I have set up a NAS which runs a few (samba/[SMB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Message_Block)) file shares for Plex and Steam libraries and others.

A Raspberry Pi is running [pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net) as the primary DNS, providing added privacy for all devices on the network.

In the past I've also used Raspberry Pi to create a separate wireless networks which then uses a VPN or PPTP to do various things.

Another project I've setup was to use [squid](http://www.squid-cache.org) to monitor traffic from mobile devices to see what mobile apps are up to. 

---

{{< alert "secondary" >}}Web Apps{{< /alert >}}

Over the years I have started many projects and the majority never realised their full potential, or launched at any level outside personal or within a small group. Some of these projects include:

{{< alert "success" >}}mdbin{{< /alert >}}

Created in April 2015 and ran until October 2016, this was a pastebin like site with Markdown rendering, options upon creation include time expiry and password protection option. This was used mostly by myself and between a group of students for University of work. I experimented with using SQLite in this project.

![mdbin](/img/projects/old/mdbin-1.png)

I also made a fork of this to handle LaTeX, but it was quite heavy and didn't work too well.

{{< alert "primary" >}}Youtube Downloader{{< /alert >}}

This was a project I started in late 2014 due to a friend not having internet access (download and copy to external storage).

This would allow a user to add multiple links to the video page and it would download the highest quality available, an uncommon feature at the time, it would handle playlists.

![ytdl](/img/projects/old/ytdl-1.png)

{{< alert "success" >}}Travian Helper{{< /alert >}}

![thelper](/img/projects/old/thelper.png)

A collection of tools and calculators for the relatively simple browser strategy game "Travian", this was actually used by a decent number of users from mid 2013 until early 2015 when I lost interest in the game due to significant changes, which made the site less relevant now. This was written in OOP PHP and MySQL.

Tools included:

* Shopping basket type tool
* Page scraper to aggregate statistics

![thelper](/img/projects/old/thelper-1.png)

{{< alert "primary" >}}Minecraft Skin Viewer{{< /alert >}}

![mcsv](/img/projects/old/mcsv-a.png)

I created this website initially in May 2013 during my time at College for a side project, it was popular enough to give me regular pocket money from ads on the site. I sold the website and domain in August 2014 and has been running successfully for 5 years since.

![mcsv](/img/projects/old/mcsv-1.png)

{{< alert "success" >}}TravianX{{< /alert >}}

I was an active contributor (late 2011 to mid 2013) to an open source clone of a MMORTS game, 'Travian'. I played this game for a long time and found this project, this project which got me into programming and web development. I'd go on to create other projects based on this game later. I still have many friends from my time working on this project.

{{< alert "primary" >}}Others{{< /alert >}}

**IDDepot**: A web based system I developed for client for creating, updating and renewing ID cards in organisations.

**KreativeHD**: A website/application I designed for a university radio station.

And many other smaller projects.

Commit message:

codewars and idea list update

content/projects/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Projects"
---

No real projects on the go. Just work projects and anything I write an article/prototype about.

[![codewars](https://www.codewars.com/users/alistaircol/badges/large)](https://www.codewars.com/users/alistaircol)

---

{{< alert "secondary" >}}Networking{{< /alert >}}

I have set up a NAS which runs a few (samba/[SMB](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Message_Block)) file shares for Plex and Steam libraries and others.

A Raspberry Pi is running [pi-hole](https://pi-hole.net) as the primary DNS, providing added privacy for all devices on the network.

In the past I've also used Raspberry Pi to create a separate wireless networks which then uses a VPN or PPTP to do various things.

Another project I've setup was to use [squid](http://www.squid-cache.org) to monitor traffic from mobile devices to see what mobile apps are up to. 

---

{{< alert "secondary" >}}Web Apps{{< /alert >}}

Over the years I have started many projects and the majority never realised their full potential, or launched at any level outside personal or within a small group. Some of these projects include:

{{< alert "success" >}}mdbin{{< /alert >}}

Created in April 2015 and ran until October 2016, this was a pastebin like site with Markdown rendering, options upon creation include time expiry and password protection option. This was used mostly by myself and between a group of students for University of work. I experimented with using SQLite in this project.

![mdbin](/img/projects/old/mdbin-1.png)

I also made a fork of this to handle LaTeX, but it was quite heavy and didn't work too well.

{{< alert "primary" >}}Youtube Downloader{{< /alert >}}

This was a project I started in late 2014 due to a friend not having internet access (download and copy to external storage).

This would allow a user to add multiple links to the video page and it would download the highest quality available, an uncommon feature at the time, it would handle playlists.

![ytdl](/img/projects/old/ytdl-1.png)

{{< alert "success" >}}Travian Helper{{< /alert >}}

![thelper](/img/projects/old/thelper.png)

A collection of tools and calculators for the relatively simple browser strategy game "Travian", this was actually used by a decent number of users from mid 2013 until early 2015 when I lost interest in the game due to significant changes, which made the site less relevant now. This was written in OOP PHP and MySQL.

Tools included:

* Shopping basket type tool
* Page scraper to aggregate statistics

![thelper](/img/projects/old/thelper-1.png)

{{< alert "primary" >}}Minecraft Skin Viewer{{< /alert >}}

![mcsv](/img/projects/old/mcsv-a.png)

I created this website initially in May 2013 during my time at College for a side project, it was popular enough to give me regular pocket money from ads on the site. I sold the website and domain in August 2014 and has been running successfully for 5 years since.

![mcsv](/img/projects/old/mcsv-1.png)

{{< alert "success" >}}TravianX{{< /alert >}}

I was an active contributor (late 2011 to mid 2013) to an open source clone of a MMORTS game, 'Travian'. I played this game for a long time and found this project, this project which got me into programming and web development. I'd go on to create other projects based on this game later. I still have many friends from my time working on this project.

{{< alert "primary" >}}Others{{< /alert >}}

**IDDepot**: A web based system I developed for client for creating, updating and renewing ID cards in organisations.

**KreativeHD**: A website/application I designed for a university radio station.

And many other smaller projects.
